#summary How to configure a Data Turbine server to enable thumbnail viewing in RDV
#labels Documentation-Admin

= Introduction =

An image channel can have a thumbnail image channel associated with it. This is done using the `ThumbNailPlugIn` distributed with Data Turbine. When this plugin is started, RDV can use it to display a thumbnail image instead of the full resolution image. This can be used to save bandwidth when you are not interested in the full resolution image

= Starting the Thumbnail Plugin ==

The thumbnail plugin can be started in two different ways. Via Web Turbine or via the command line. Both take the same set of options.

== Plugin Options ==

The following options can be passed to plugin when starting it.

|| *Description*             || *Command line* || *Default*      ||
|| RBNB Server Address       || -a             || localhost:3333 ||
|| PlugIn Name               || -n             || !ThumbNail     ||
|| JPEG Source/Channel       || -c             ||                ||
|| Image Scale Factor (0-4)  || -s             || 0.5            ||
|| Image Quality (0-1)       || -q             || 0.5            ||
|| Maximum Number of Images  || -M             || 10             ||

If no source or channel is specified, the plugin will thumbnail all image channels. Specify a source or channel to limit the thumbnail to these sources or channels.

== Starting Via Web Turbine ==

To start the plugin via Web Turbine, go to the Web Turbine web site for your Data Turbine server (http://hostname/webTurbine/) and click `Thumb Nail PlugIn`. From here you can set the various options for the plugin. The plugin name needs to be changed to `_Thumbnails` because this is what RDV is hard coded to look for. The other parameters can be tweaked for the desired usage. Click `Start PlugIn` to start the plugin.

== Starting Via the Command Line ==

To start the plugin via the command line, replace `$RBNB_HOME` with the root Data Turbine directory, and execute the following command:

`java -cp $RBNB_HOME/bin/rbnb.jar:$RBNB_HOME/apache-tomcat-5.5.12/webapps/webTurbine/WEB-INF/classes/ ThumbNailPlugIn -n _Thumbnails`

The other plugins options listed above may be used, but they are optional.

= Viewing Thumbnails in RDV =

Once the plugin is started, RDV will automatically detect that this plugin is running, and give you the option of switching to viewing thumbnails. Switching to viewing a thumbnail image can be enabled via the popup menu that appears when right-clicking the image.