#summary Projects using RDV

== [http://www.nees.org/ NEES] ==

The George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation ([http://www.nees.org/ NEES]) is a nationwide network of resources funded by the National Science Foundation ([http://www.nsf.gov/ NSF]) to advance earthquake engineering research and education. Fifteen geographically distributed experimental equipment sites and a central data repository are connected to the global earthquake engineering community via software tools that facilitate the translation of experimental knowledge to improved real-world seismic design, construction, and performance.

NEES uses RDV to remotely observe and participate in experiments through the use of synchronized real-time data and video.

 * [http://nees.org/resources/rdv NEESit's RDV distribution]

== [http://gleon.org/ GLEON] and [http://www.coralreefeon.org/ CREON] ==

The Global Lake Ecological Observatory Network ([http://gleon.org/ GLEON]) is a grassroots network of limnologists, information technology experts, and engineers who have a common goal of building a scalable, persistent network of lake ecology observatories.

The Coral Reef Environmental Observatory Network ([http://www.coralreefeon.org/ CREON]) is a collaborating association of scientists and engineers from around the world striving to design and build marine sensor networks.

 * [http://www.dataturbine.org/files/isog2007_final.pdf Kenting’s Underwater Ecological Observatory]

== [http://www.koced.net/ KOCED] ==

The Korea Construction Engineering Development ([http://www.koced.net/ KOCED]) Collaboratory Program aims to promote research and development and to set up a nationwide education program to produce highly qualified researchers and practitioners in the various fields of construction engineering. The ultimate goal of KOCED is to strengthen Korea’s international competitiveness in construction technologies.

== [http://ucist.cive.wustl.edu/ UCIST] ==

The University Consortium of Instructional Shake Tables ([http://ucist.cive.wustl.edu/ UCIST]) was developed to enhance undergraduate and graduate education in earthquake engineering. UCIST has endeavored to enhance the education of undergraduates through the procurement of instructional bench-scale shake tables, the development of curricula, and the dissemination of these tools to other institutions. UCIST's vision is to develop a national collaboratory of benchscale earthquake engineering facilities that will engage a broad range of students by creating a series of shared laboratory exercises available for remote operation via the Internet.

 * [http://www.seismosoc.org/publications/SRL/SRL_78/srl_78-4_eq.html Tele-operation Tools for Bench-scale Shake Tables for Instruction in Earthquake Engineering]

== [http://www.nznees.auckland.ac.nz/ NZNEES] ==

[http://www.nznees.auckland.ac.nz/ NZNEES@Auckland] is a major research program lead by the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering in the University of Auckland. NZNEES stands for the New Zealand Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulations, and it is a program conducted under the auspice of the U.S. George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation (NEES). The aim of the NZNEES@Auckland project is to provide a unique contribution to the integrated experimentation, computation and simulation capabilities that exist currently in earthquake engineering networks, and foster collaborative research in New Zealand and internationally.

 * [http://www.nznees.auckland.ac.nz/portals/4/publications/Overview_of_NZNEES_Web.pdf Overview of NZNEES@Auckland]