#summary Notes on new features, bugs fixed, and changes in RDV releases

== RDV 1.9 - _July 10, 2008_ ==

This release contains significant new features for viewing images and video, a
new dial visualization, and support for exporting MATLAB files. A number of
smaller improvements for plotting have been added in addition to a few bug
fixes.

=== New features ===

  * Support for zooming and panning of an image. A clickable navigation image can be used to jump around parts of an image when zoomed in.
  * Filmstrip interface to view images sequentially.
  * Support for viewing a [ThumbnailImages thumbnail of an image] to conserve bandwidth.
  * !DialViz, a visualization extension to view a numeric data channel on a dial.
  * Export of data to the MATLAB MAT-file format.
  * Support for [PortKnockingAuthentication port knocking authentication].

=== Improvements ===

  * Cursors on an XY plot to indicate the current data point in a series.
  * Zooming out of a plot via the mouse will remember previous zoom levels.
  * Support for PNG and GIF images.
  * Ability to hide the legend in a plot.

=== Bug fixes ===

  * Can't connect to RBNB server with circular references.
  * Children of shortcut servers aren't shown in channel list.
  * Auto adjusting the domain axis in a time series plot does not work correctly.

=== Changes ===

  * Plots set to auto range, don't always include zero anymore.
  * The system look & feel is used now, so RDV should look more native to the platform it is running on.
  * All RDV class were moved to the "org.rdv" package.

== RDV 1.8 - _January 23, 2008_ ==

=== New features ===

    * Import [http://opensees.berkeley.edu/ OpenSees] XML data files into RDV.
    * Import video into RDV from files residing on a local machine or in NEEScentral that have been stored in a zip file.

=== Bug fixes ===
    * Disable the export menu if no source/channels are selected.

== RDV 1.7 - _September 14, 2007_ ==

=== New features ===
 * Export video as a series of time stamped JPEG files.
 * Play MP3 audio from a streaming server.

=== Bug fixes ===
 * Fix a bug when saving closed floating windows in configuration.