#labels Featured
== [FAQ Frequently Asked Questions] ==

Browse these frequently asked questions other users of RDV have already asked.

== [http://groups.google.com/group/rdv-users Mailing List] ==

The [http://groups.google.com/group/rdv-users RDV users] mailing list is for discussion of issues related to the usage of RDV. Anything related to RDV is appropriate with topics including help on the usage of a feature, bugs, and new features you would like to see. To start a discussion, send an email to [mailto:rdv-users@googlegroups.com rdv-users@googlegroups.com]. If you are interested in what others are discussing you may subscribe to the list or view the archives using the links below.

    * [http://groups.google.com/group/rdv-users/topics List archvies]
    * [http://groups.google.com/group/rdv-users/subscribe Subscribe or unsubscribe]

== [http://code.google.com/p/rdv/issues/list Bugs] ==

If you have found a bug, please report it using the bug tracker. Before you report a bug, browse through the [http://code.google.com/p/rdv/issues/list?q=label%3AType-Defect&can=2 list of current bugs] and see if it has already been reported. If it has not, submit a [http://code.google.com/p/rdv/issues/entry new bug] and give a detailed description of the problem. One of the developers will take a look at it and get back to you.

== Paid Support ==

Commercial support contracts are available from [http://paltasoftware.com/ Palta Software].

== For [http://www.nees.org/ NEES] Users ==

NEESit [http://it.nees.org/support/index.php provides support] for NEES projects using RDV for telepresence and visualization.