#summary Installation instructions for Ubuntu/Debian
#labels Documentation-User

RDV can be installed on Ubuntu or Debian systems using the RDV APT repository. RDV requires [http://www.ubuntu.com/ Ubuntu 8.04] or [http://www.debian.org/ Debian 5.0]. 

== Installing via GUI (Ubuntu) ==

 # Download [http://paltasoftware.com/paltasoftware-key.asc http://paltasoftware.com/paltasoftware-key.asc] to your computer.
 # Open _System -> Administration -> Software Sources_.
 # Go to the _Third-Party Software_ tab and click *Add...*. You will be asked for an APT line, so paste in the one below and click *Add Source*.
 `deb http://paltasoftware.com/debian stable main`
 # Go to the _Authentication_ tab and click *Import Key File...*. Select the _paltasoftware-key.asc_ file you downloaded in step 1 and click *OK*.
 # Click *Close* and then click *Reload* if asked to reload the information about available software.
 # Open _System -> Adminstration -> Synaptic Package Manager_.
 # Click *Search* and search for _rdv_.
 # Find the _rdv_ package and check the box next to it, click *Mark for Installation*, and click *Mark* if asked to select additional packages.
 # Click *Apply*, then click *Apply* again when asked to confirm the list of packages to install.
 # The files will be downloaded and installed. Click *Close* when finished and exit the _Synaptic Package Manager_.

== Installing from the command line ==

 # Add this line to /etc/apt/sources.list.
 `deb http://paltasoftware.com/debian stable main`
 # Install RDV's public key so APT can verify repository. For those of you who want to check, the id of the key is _DA19FC17_ and the fingerprint is _BAD7 D7B2 3522 7570 936C  50B3 F752 0035 DA19 FC17_.
 `> wget -O - http://paltasoftware.com/paltasoftware-key.asc | sudo apt-key add -`
 # Update your list of apt sources.
 `> sudo apt-get update`
 # Download and install RDV.
 `> sudo apt-get install rdv`

== Running RDV ==
RDV can be run from _Application -> Education -> RDV_ menu or via the command line by running:
 `> rdv`